C-x C-f
C-_
C-k
C-y

================================================================
====
rev 12-24-12
====

C-x C-f can do much more than open files. If run with a directory name
it will open a "directory editor", or dired. dired is very similar to
a normal text editor's file browser. It can do a lot of really cool
things, but for now we'll just open a file with it. Navigate to a file
with the arrow keys, and hit 'e' to edit it.

C-_ is undo. To redo, press any key other than undo (such as an arrow
key), than hit undo. That will undo previous undos.

All commands can be repeatedly run by holding the keys, or by holding
the modifier keys and repeatedly pressing the last key (such as
holding Control and pressing _)

C-k is kill-line. Basically, it cuts from the current cursor location
to the end of the current line. If you run C-k repeatedly, all the
killed lines will be stored together. C-k stores lines in a buffer
called the "kill ring"

C-y is yank. Yank is paste, with minimal emacs flavor. It will paste
whatever is in the kill ring to where the cursor is.

================================================================

Need to time this script, come up with a video and get the video
editing set up working again.

====
C-x C-f is actually a lot more powerful than I let on in lesson 1. The
simplest common use is as a file browser. If you put in a directory
name instead of a file name (highlight minibuffer doing this), it will
open that directory (switch to dired). You can navigate this menu with
the arrow keys and open files or directories by hitting enter while
your cursor is over the corresponding line (demonstrate navigating
directories and entering a file while talking). C-x C-f is similar to
modern editor's C-o

C-_ is undo. It's very similar to C-z in modern editors. You can hold
C-_ down or hold Ctrl while hitting _ to undo multiple things. To
redo, press any command other than undo (such as down arrow) and hit
undo, which undos the previous undo.

C-k is kill-line, which is very similar to cut in modern operating
systems. emacs has something called a "killring" which, utility wise,
is very closely related to the clipboard (which is where things are
stored from cut and copy). When you hit C-k, the current line is
placed on the kill ring. As long as you hold down Ctrl, you can hold
down or repeatedly hit k to cut multiple lines. If you releast Ctrl,
press it back down and start killing lines again, it will overwrite
what was in the killring. Note that C-k will either kill a line up
until a newline, or an empty line. This means to entirely delete a
line with C-k, you have to hit k twice. I often use C-k for both cut
and pasting lines and for getting rid of lines. It's a very fast way
to delete a line.

C-y is yank, which is more or less paste from modern operating
systems. Yank takes whatever is currently in the killring, places it
at the cursor and moves the cursor to the end of what it pastes (or
yanks). Just like C-k, you can hold oy repeatedly hit y to repeat the
command. Unlike C-k, if you release Ctrl nothing changes. C-y doesn't
overwrite anything.
